---
title: Limitations & Considerations
layout: default
filename: philosophical_aspects
--- 
# Limitations & Considerations

The underlying assumption of our model is that an agent believing that a proposition is a common belief within their social group, will (in reality) strengthen the belief that the individual holds. The idea was therefore, that by maintaining a large and diverse social network, potentially harmful beliefs such as conspiracy theories, are being prevented from becoming commonly believed within the group, because there will always be critical voices, who do no share a certain belief. In our COVID-19 example we are assuming, that „reasonable“ people are being excluded, therefore leading to the adoption of potentially harmful beliefs as common beliefs within a group. 

However, it could also be the case that people with potentially harmful beliefs are being excluded from a group, leading the remaining members to commonly belief in something we might rather find desirable, such as human rights. Therefore, one could argue that excluding certain people from a network, might have beneficial effects for the overall epistemic status of that group. However, the reasons for who should or should not be excluded, or which belief is potentially harmful or reasonable, boils down to any agents subjective assumption of a certain world to be the real world. While in our model, we can define the real world a priori, this is simply not possible in reality. In fact, in a logical sense, there can be no common knowledge of a fact in reality, since that would presume that we actually know, which world is the real world. The philosophical difference between knowledge and belief in this sense, is that a known fact has to actually be true, meaning that it has to hold in the state representing the real world. Belief on the contrary does not share this assumption. Formally, while in logic languages representing knowledge, such as S5, axiom 3 demands that K_i ϕ -> ϕ is valid, our logic language KD45 only demands that ¬ B_i (⊥) is valid. Therefore, since none of us can reliably know which world is to be considered to be the real world in reality, there exists a symmetry between supposedly reasonable people excluding supposedly unreasonable people from a social group, and supposedly unreasonable people excluding supposedly reasonable ones. In the end, this distinction depends on the subjective perception of reality of the individual within the group. Therefore, both scientists and conspiracy theorists, from their own perspectives, might consider cutting the other out as a reasonable decision.

Since, based on this presenting symmetry, we cannot objectively know whether the exclusion of someone from a group is beneficial (for that group), we can strengthen our claim that excluding people with opposing beliefs from a group, may not be desirable. However, there is a potentially important difference between a person believing something not to be the case (B_i ¬ ϕ), and a person not believing something to be the case (¬ B_i ϕ). While in the former case, an agent does not hold a world in which ϕ does not hold for possible, the agent in the later does hold a world where ϕ is not the case for possible. However, the presence of either of the two agents within a group where otherwise ϕ is commonly believed, would lead to the same result: the prevention from ϕ being common belief. Therefore, while it might in some cases be unrealistic to expect people with opposite beliefs to maintain social bonds (although this often might certainly be desirable), it would already help a group to have at least one member who holds the opposite for possible, although not necessarily believing the opposite to be the case. 

